Oral cavity status of long-term hemodialized patients vs. their socio-economic status. 
BACKGROUND: The chronic kidney disease, blood hypertension and diabetes are recognized as civilization diseases that affect more and more people. The probability of encountering a patient suffering from these diseases is increasing. As such, it appears crucial to better understand the specific dental needs of such groups of patients. The aim of the work was to assess the oral hygiene status and the needs of patients suffering from the end-stage chronic kidney disease, arterial hypertension or/and diabetes. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two hundred and twenty eight patients were included in the research. One hundred and eighty patients were hemodialized in Diaverum dialysis stations and 48 patients were from the Conservative Dentistry with Endodontics Clinic of the Academic Centre of Dentistry in Bytom, Silesian Medical University in Katowice, and from the Dentistry Division of the Arnika Clinic in Zabrze, and were not not diagnosed with any of the diseases mentioned. The research scheme was divided into 3 parts, consisting of an analysis of the general health socio-economic status, a survey and an assessment of oral health. RESULTS: The patients who were not suffering from any of the discussed diseases were more aware of how to properly perform hygienic procedures. Most of the patients from both the control and examined groups were not using any rinsing solutions. A higher percentage of patients in the control group was using dental floss, changing their toothbrush every 3 months and brushing their teeth for >=2 min. The Aproximal Plaque Index and the Oral Hygiene Index-Simplified values in the control group were significantly lower in comparison to the examined group. CONCLUSIONS: The socio-economic status of hemodialized patients was low, which in most cases was a result of the difficulties in starting a job. Due to the lower standards of life, the neglect of oral hygiene maintenance and its consequences could be observed. Med Pr. 2020;71(3):279-88. 
