Occupational Skin Diseases among Building Construction Workers in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. 
Background: Amongst established growing industries worldwide, the construction industry contributes about 7.5% of the world labor force and 16.4% of global occupational diseases and accidents. A variety of activities are practiced in construction work, such as masonry, painting, welding, carpentry, plastering, concrete and cement mixing. These may eventually lead to exposures that can subject the workers to risks of developing occupational skin diseases. Most studies done on the construction industry in Tanzania have focused on effects such as injuries, respiratory problems and ergonomics; very little research has been done on skin diseases. Objectives: The study aimed at assessing the prevalence of occupational skin diseases, associated factors and preventive measures among building construction workers in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Methods: Construction sites and participants were selected using simple random sampling. The Nordic Occupational Skin Questionnaire (NOSQ) was adapted and used for assessing the development of skin diseases among constructions workers. Analysis of categorical variables, associated factors and skin preventive measures was done using Chi-square tests. Bivariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to determine odds ratio and adjusted odds ratio for factors indicating an influence on the occurrence of skin diseases. Findings: The study consisted of 420 building construction workers from different sites with a mean age of 32.7 years. The participants were masons, assistant masons and carpenters. The mean work duration was 6 years. Occupational Skin diseases were prevalent in 228 (54%) workers. Carpenters had a higher prevalence of skin diseases 12(67%), followed by assistant masons 43 (64%). Timely provision of safety trainings and of PPE utility, training and guidance lowered the occurrence of skin diseases. Conclusion: A high number of construction workers experienced skin diseases, especially those who have worked for more than 4 years. Workers who received safety training before the work shift had lesser prevalence of skin diseases compared to those who did not. Receiving proper information on PPE usage and proper wearing of gloves had a protective effect. 
