An acute gastroenteritis outbreak associated with breakfast contaminated with norovirus by asymptotic food handler at a kindergarten in Shenzhen, China. 
BACKGROUND: An outbreak of acute gastroenteritis occurred in a kindergarten located Shenzhen City on March 4, 2018. We were invited to investigate to the risk factors associated with this outbreak. METHODS: We conducted retrospective cohort-studies on three different groups of subjects in order to figure out the difference of incidence of acute gastroenteritis among subjects of different activities on March 2: group one consisted of people who attended the Lantern festival activities; group two consisted of children and employees who ate breakfast and bread provided by the kindergarten; and groups three consisted of children and employees who did not eat breakfast or bread provided by the kindergarten. Fecal, anal swabs, dishware swabs and hand swabs specimens were collected in the study. Bacteria known to cause acute gastroenteritis were cultured. Viruses associated with acute gastroenteritis were tested using real-time PCR. Capsid gene fragment of 557 bp of norovirus was amplified and sequenced. The phylogenetic tree was constructed with MEGA 7.0 using neighbor-joining method based on capsid gene fragment of norovirus. RESULTS: A total of 143 suspected cases were identified in this outbreak. Diarrhea happened more often in adults than in children while emesis and bellyache were more frequently found in children than in adults. Higher AGE incidence was observed in group 2, children and employees who had breakfast in the kindergarten on March 2, as well as in group 3, and among employees who eating bread involved in breakfast provided on March 2. Five anal swab specimens were positive for norovirus. All noroviruses belongs to group II.3 and have an identity more than 99%. CONCLUSION: A chef, as an asymptomatic carrier with norovirus, was the infectious resource in this outbreak. He contaminated breakfast food provided on March 2. Although morning check is implemented in kindergartens of China, employees are often excluded in morning check. Our finding highlights the importance of morning check covering employees and periodical training for cooks. 
